Welcome to the third course of the Data
Analytics for Business Specialization.
In this course,
we describe how data analytics is used
to create models for decision making.
The goal for
this course is to make the transition from
predictive models to prescriptive models.
As the name indicates,
prescriptive analytic models
prescribe courses of action.
This is done by establishing
an objective in the set of constraints.
The course creates a bridge
between predicting outcomes, and
prescribing solutions
to business problems.
In Module one,
we started with cluster analysis.
As my colleagues Dave and
Dan did in previous courses,
I will follow the same approach
of introducing modeling and
analysis techniques within
the context of business applications.
For cluster analysis,
we will focus on market segmentation.
The main idea in market segmentation is
to divide a broad market into segments or
clusters.
The technique produces groups
whose members have similar needs,
interests, and priorities.
These help companies design
a specific strategies.
For example, an advertising campaign, or
a set of promotions,
to target each market segment.
In the second model,
we examine the main techniques to deal
with uncertainty in business problems.
We will discuss why
using average values for
something that we don't know, for example
demand, is not always the best idea.
Overbooking will be the main
business application in this module.
This is the perfect example for
this module,
because the uncertainty of whether a
customer will show up for an appointment,
or a hotel reservation, or a flight,
has immediate revenue implications.
In the third module, we will learn how to
develop and solve optimization models.
Optimization is a core technique
in prescriptive analytics.
This makes a lot of sense, because
you want models that are able to find
the best possible course of action for
a given objective.
The beauty of optimization is
that it is capable of examining
a very large number of possible
solutions to a problem.
So it does something that
would require a lot of effort
if we had to do it by trial and error.
We will use a transportation problem and
a decision problem in digital advertising,
to illustrate how
optimization models work.
Simulation optimization,
the topic of module four,
is one of my favorite things to teach.
In the Masters of Business Analytics
here at the University of Colorado,
Leeds School of Business,
we spend more time in this topic
than the time that we're going to
be able to spend in this course.
However, you will get a good
overview of the main concepts.
The reason this is so exciting, is that
it combines simulation and optimization.
Simulation allows you to
model uncertainty, and
when you combine it with optimization,
you're able to determine the best course
of action in the face of uncertainty.
I am glad that you're doing this
specialization, and that you're ready for
this third course.
I hope that you enjoyed taking it as much
as I have enjoyed putting it together.